# Make or Break - Code of Conduct

**Make or Break** is dedicated to providing an inclusive and harassment-free
experience for everyone. We do not tolerate harassment of people at our events
or space in any form.

This code of conduct applies to all **Make or Break** spaces, both online or
off, including the venue at **Pal√°cio dos Correios** and our **Slack
channels**. Projects created at the hackathon are equally subject to the code
of conduct. Anyone who violates this code of conduct may be sanctioned or
expelled from these spaces at the discretion of the members of staff.

For purposes of clarity, harassment includes, but is not strictly limited to:
offensive verbal comments related to gender, gender identity and expression,
sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, age, race,
ethnicity, socioeconomic status, religion (or lack thereof), off-topic sexual
images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following,
harassing photography or recording, sustained disruption of talks or other
events, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.

It is inappropriate to take photographs in contexts where people have a
reasonable expectation of privacy (in bathrooms or where participants are
sleeping).

Sponsors and partners are also subject to the anti-harassment policy. In
particular, sponsors should not use sexualised images, activities, or other
material. Sponsor representatives (including volunteers) should not use
sexualised clothing/uniforms/costumes, or otherwise create a sexualised
environment.


## Reporting

If you are subject to or witness unacceptable behavior, or have any other
concerns regarding violations of this policy, please contact a member of staff
immediately.

Members of staff will be happy to help participants contact venue security or
local law enforcement, provide escorts, or otherwise assist those experiencing
harassment to feel safe for the duration of the hackathon.

You can identify members of staff by their badges or by their badges indicating
**STAFF**.


## Enforcement

Unacceptable behavior from any community member, including sponsors and those
with decision-making authority, will not be tolerated.

Anyone asked to stop unacceptable behavior is expected to comply immediately.

If a community member engages in unacceptable behavior, the organizers may take
any action they deem appropriate, up to and including a temporary ban or
permanent expulsion from the event without warning.
