# Make or Break 2018

[Make or Break](https://makeorbreak.io) is the largest tech community event in
the city of Porto, Portugal. It consists of a hackathon, a demo fair, a series
of workshops, programming contests, and other activities.

Everyone can participate. It's free, it's fun, and there are prizes for the
best projects. We hope participants have fun, socialize, and learn from
building shiny things and from each other's projects. It’s also a great
opportunity to get to know about Porto and its tech scene.

This document contains an overview of the event, including our code of conduct
and rules for every activity. Until the event begins, the rules are a work in
progress. There won't be any major changes, but be sure to check back.


## Code of Conduct

One of the main goals of Make or Break is to create a fun and relaxing
environment, where all the participants feel safe and sound, despite their
gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, nationality, or religion. In that sense,
all the participants, organizers, guests, and visitors must follow our [code of
conduct](code-of-conduct.md).


## Location and venue

Make or Break happens in the city of Porto, Portugal. As in previous years, the
venue will provide the participants with a shared working area, as well as
chill-out and eating zones.

This year's edition will be at [Palácio dos Correios, Porto](https://goo.gl/maps/mMwoSdTibWS2).

The closest Metro do Porto station is Avenida dos Aliados, but
[Trindade](https://goo.gl/maps/FiNN4bvCafA2), the networks's main hub, is less
than five minutes away by foot.

If you're arriving by train at Campanhã, you need to catch the Metro to
Trindade. All lines passing through Campanhã will stop at Trindade; you'll need
to buy a Z2 title (0.60 EUR for the rechargeable ticket + 1.20 EUR for the Z2
travel title).

If you're arriving by train at São Bento, you can just walk up Avenida dos
Aliados for roughly five minutes.

If you're planning on traveling by train, we recommend buying the ticket at
least five days in advance to get a discounted price.


## Schedule

Make or Break is a 3-day event. It starts on April 13th and ends on April 15th:

* 13-04-2018: Hackathon opening
    * 09:30-13:00: Check-in
    * 14:00-14:30: Welcome speech
    * 14:30-23:59: Hacking time (Make)

* 14-04-2018: Hackathon continued
    * 00:00-23:59: Hacking time (Make)

* 15-04-2018: Hackathon finale
    * 00:00-14:00: Hacking time (Make)
    * 14:00: Advised code-stop
    * 14:00-15:30: Fair registration and booth setup
    * 15:30-18:00: Fair and voting time (Break)
    * 18:00-20:00: Winners and closing ceremony

Workshops are to be added to the schedule as we reveal them, but they will need
a separate application.


## Activities and registration

Each activity requires its own registration process, but everything goes
through our platform. You should start by creating an account at
https://makeorbreak.io.

You can participate in any activity, even if you're not planning on joining the
hackathon!

### Hackathon




### Workshops

Throughout the three days we will be featuring several workshops, ranging a
wide variety of subjects so you can learn a bit of everything.

The number of seats is limited, so you will need to register your interest in
the workshops section at [makeorbreak.io](https://makeorbreak.io). Be sure to
only register if you are sure you can attend - otherwise you will be preventing
someone else from participating.


### AI Competition



## Disclaimer

Disrespecting any of the event rules by any element, team, or project may
result in the disqualification of that element, or team. That decision is ruled
by the organization on a case-by-case basis.

The organization may amend or supplement this document from time to time in our
sole discretion without prior notice. Changes are effective upon posting, and
it is encouraged to frequently review it online for any changes.
